So let's go write some queries for this.
We're going to talk about joins like this
is the secret sauce of an SQL database.
This is like the reason why you
want to write SQL databases.
You want to have access to
this power of joins and
unions and those kind of fun things.
I don't know if you think that's fun.
I might have a warped
sense of what is fun.
I don't know you'll have to tell me.
So let's just kind of get started.
First I'm going to say first
select comment ID, user ID and
left comment 20 as preview, so well left.
These comments are pretty long.
And I don't want to display
all the ones otherwise it
makes it really hard for me to read.
So left comment just means give me
the first 20 characters cut off everything
after that right.
So the first 20 characters will be
left If you want to take the last
20 characters as you might guess,
it's right.
And then to just kind of
clean up the column name,
it'll return this it'll project this as
preview, you don't have to put that there.
It just makes it easier to read.
So from comments where
board ID equals 39.
Okay, so this gives me a common ID,
a user ID and
then the preview of that text.
Now if I'm going to try and
display this to my users,
my users don't care what the user ideas,
they want to know the user name.
They don't want to know
what the user ideas.
But where's that user information?
Where's the username actually live?
It doesn't live in the comment
more it shouldn't, right?
It lives in the users table.
So I guess this kind of brings us back to
a fun foundational truth of databases.
You wanna have one source of truth, right?
So for a username, you wanna have one
place where that username is stored and
then you want to use that
username everywhere else, right?
You don't wanna duplicate the data.
You want to have a single source of truth.
This is just kind of a general
programming kind of,
principle but in this particular case,
like, let's say we had user ID,
instead of user ID, we had username and
we were doing everything by username.
That's bad because if the user
ever updates their username,
we now have to change that everywhere.
If you've ever tried to
keep data in sync before,
you just know,
data always falls out of sync.
It's just a hard truth,
the hard reality of writing code that
you can never keep data in sync.
So instead, we have a user table
that contains all the user data and
then we're gonna use the user ID as a
foreign key and refer to that everywhere.
And then if that user wants
to update their username,
they update it in one place and
it updates magically everywhere.
So let's make a better query.
That's going to return to us
that particular users username.
So we're going to select
comment_id, comments.user_id,
users.username, time,
LEFT(comment 20,
AS preview,
FROM, user, or FROM comments rather.
Then here's where the fun comes in,
you're gonna say INNER Join users.
So you're gonna we're just
selecting from comments.
And then we're gonna join data from users.
And they're gonna say on,
you have to give it the clause of
how it knows how to match things up.
And I'm gonna say, comments
User-id Equals users.user_id.
It kind of sounds like if these two things
match up, that means they go together.
Where am I going to do it for one board.
So we're gonna do board id equals 39.
Where, board, id equals 39.
Now you can see comments,
id 524 the username that that
person uses is this all right?
And so now we have enough data to
go back and actually correlate it.
We can actually displays cuz now
we know their usernames, right?
And we know what time they posted it.
This is enough data for
us to go and actually make the display
of the message board, for board 39.
So let's talk a tiny second about this
line right there instead of select No, so
we're saying comments dot user id.
We could have said users
that user ID as well,
they're gonna end up being the same,
but it's ambiguous for
us to just say user ID, we have to specify
which of the same user IDs that we want.
You can't be ambiguous.
Whereas, comment_id, it knows comment_id
only exists inside of comments,
it doesn't exist inside a user.
So we don't have to put
the comments.comments_id.
Not ambiguous.
In fact,
I think we could have left out username.
We could have,
because that's not ambiguous either.
I think let's just try it.
Yeah.
See, we didn't have to put that one
there cause it's not ambiguous.
There's only one username.
Yeah, but when you start
doing multiple joints, right?
So we did one join, but you can do
multiple joints across many tables.
It starts to just, just become easier
to like always put out users.com and
start and
just kind of keep it really straight.
So cool, right?
Like this is how you do joins in SQL.
This is kind of like one of the big
powerful things about relational databases
is that one user can have many comments,
right?
We don't have to store that user's
information across many comments,
whereas in MongoDB, that actually
might be the correct way to do it.
In SQL,
we can store the users in one spot.
And there are many comments
in another place, right?
Called a one to many relationship right?
One user has many comments.
And as you may imagine,
there's many to many relationships.
There's many one, there's a bunch of
way to do these kind of relations.
Right now we're just
talking about one too many.
And like one board has
many comments as well.
So you can have multiple one to
many relationships across tables.